You have just been tricked into entering
the ultimate gambling tournament only to
find out that this is a death game and
you'll need to outsmart your opponents,
nab anyone in the back and risk everything just
to stay alive. What do you do when you're gambling
with your life and a single mistake will turn you
into a wage slave. I'm going to break down the
mistakes made, what you should do and how to beat
every death game in Kaiji: The Ultimate Gambler.
This kid has no luck. Kaiji here just spent the
last of his money on a losing lottery ticket,
but it's only the beginning of a no good, very bad
day. He walks past several Mercedes in the parking
lot and starts kicking them out of jealousy. Two
other guys get out of the car, and he realises
he's made the biggest mistake of his life. Chasing
him through the street, he's caught and held down
until this loan shark arrives. They take him to
an office where the loan shark tells him that
his friend borrowed her money and disappeared and
since Kaiji here signed a guaranteed payment on
a loan for 300,000 yen, he's now responsible for
paying back over 2 million in interest. He doesn't
have the money and starts to break down crying.
Alright, if this guy still has his death note then
now would be a really great time to use it because
his day is getting worse by the minute, but he
actually had a way out of this and overlooked
something really important. In Japan, it's
illegal to charge more than 20% interest annually,
and if he owes 2 million, that's a rate of 160%.
If I were him, I would have taken the documents as
evidence to report the extortion and pay the 20%.
It's still a lot of money, but it's
better than gambling your life away.
The loan shark tells the kid, there's a gambling
ship that's leaving in four hours and if he wins
the game, that he can start a new life and she'll
erase his debt. He takes the deal and goes to
the harbor where this massive ship is docked.
He has one last chance to make things right,
but he has no idea he'll be gambling with
his life. Kaiji here is taken to a room full
of other competitors who are just as desperate as
he is and willing to do whatever it takes to win.
An announcement is made welcoming the players
as this man, Tonegawa, tells them that in order
for them to play they'll be loaned three of
these stars which are worth 1 million yen each,
however, the interest rate is a brutal
1% per minute. Okay, this is sketchy,
nobody takes you off the street and puts 3 million
yen in your hands, unless you are the actual
commodity here and not the player, where you are
being bought and sold for something larger here,
and we need to keep that in mind if we want to
survive, because with this much money on the line,
you have next to no control over what happens to
you, and that makes for a very dangerous game.
They’re all given three stars and a hand of 12
cards and will be playing rock paper scissors.
They have to pair up and play a card,
laying it down on the table. For each win,
they gain a star from the loser, and whoever
still has three or more stars after all 12
cards are played will win and go back home
debt-free, but they only have 30 minutes.
As the host leaves the game begins
and the players start going nuts.
Okay, while everyone is scrambling, we should
take a moment to observe our competitors. First,
we need to pick out the most insecure and
predictable person in the room. This guy here
seems pretty desperate, so I would choose him
to play. Now, it would be normal to assume that
this is a game of chance, but it's not. Patterns
of this game have actually been studied and they
found that when a player wins one round they're
more likely to play the same thing again. This is
called a win-stay lose-shift strategy, and I would
use it to beat them. If you lose the first round,
the best thing to do is switch to the card that
beats what your opponent just played, this will
take advantage of your opponents most probable
game strategy and you're more likely to win.
There's also another element of human
psychology here that we can exploit.
It's a very natural instinct to wanna keep your
options open, so I would expect that the last
three cards in anyone's hands are going to be
all three options of rock paper and scissors. As
soon as they play one, I know what the other two
cards are and have better odds of beating them.
Everyone is gambling their stars away without
any strategy when Kaiji hears someone screaming.
This guy begs to be let go and they all watch
as this player gets dragged away by one of the
guards and taken into a dark room. It's only been
three minutes and he's already lost all his stars.
The door slams shut, and all they can hear are
his screams. That's when this man Funai grabs
Kaiji here and tells him he has a strategy to
beat this game. If they work together and only
play the same cards at the same time, it will
be a draw. This lets them use all their cards
and keep their stars. So they shake on it and
start playing. Alright, if we're here to win,
he's just given you the best chance you'll get all
night. I would play a winning card in the first
play, take his star and walk away. I'm not here
to make friends, I'm here to make money. The man
instructs Kaiji here to play rock scissors paper
in that order, and the first turn is a draw. They
keep this pattern going and the plan is working
until Funai here suddenly plays a winning card.
He apologises for the mistake and tells him to
use rock next so that he can get his star back,
but on the next turn, the guy play
scissors, and Funai here wins again.
He takes Kaiji's star and the kid is
not happy. He shoves him to the floor
and punches him as both men notice that
some blood has landed on Kaiji's last card.
He gets restrained by the staff and he tells
them what happened, but they don't care,
no rules were broken, and he's only
got himself to blame for being tricked.
Okay, this was a great con. Now, Kaiji's only got
one star and one card left, but there's a silver
lining here because the staff were totally fine
with them abusing the rules and playing all draws.
I would start to reconsider every rule we were
told and what wasn't said. So I would look for
two types of people to take advantage of, the
first are those who have three stars and want
to get rid of their cards but are too scared to
play and lose. This guy here gets caught trying to
flush them down the toilet, which is against the
rules, but giving them to another player isn't.
And he would definitely give us his cards if we
offered to take them. Then the second type of
victim is someone with two stars but has no cards
left because they'll be desperate to win a third
star. Now, if we just got a bunch of spare cards
from this guy then we can sell them to that guy
for one star and he would buy them because it's
his only way to win. As long as we're discrete
with our trades and find the right victims, we
could repeat this several times back and forth
and get rich without playing a single game. With
15 minutes left, Funai here reveals to everyone
that Kaiji's last card is scissors, anyone
who has rock can beat him, but then the kid
reveals that Funai's last card is rock and they
should all beat him instead. The other players
are skeptical, so Funai here suggests everyone
re-shuffle. They all agree and rush in to join,
but Kaiji here notices this helpless man
on the ground and comes up with a plan.
Funai re-deals everyone new playing cards, but
Kaiji sees a man save one card for himself.
After the shuffle, the man approaches and asks
to play a second time, offering two of his stars,
but Kaiji here raises it to three stars, betting
both his and this guy's stars combined. So the
man agrees to play. With three minutes
remaining Funai puts down his last card,
teasing Kaiji for being tricked again, but this
time Kaiji has the last laugh when he plays paper.
He won and takes three of his stars,
giving one of them to his partner.
Okay, this was a brilliant gamble, but it only
worked because Kaiji was being highly observant
here. He knew Funai saw the blood on his card and
organised a shuffle just to clear his suspicion,
so that he could play Kaiji using the same
winning card, but Kaiji secretly wiped the
blood off and traded it for this guy's paper
card, putting blood on it to trick Funai.
With only 30 seconds left, Kaiji and the old man
split up the remaining cards and play each other
in one final game. They draw each time getting
to keep their stars and use all their cards
just as time runs out, but the old man forgets he
had one last card in his pocket and he's not going
to be able to pass. The kid decides to do the
honorable thing and takes mutual responsibility
for the loss. He's brought into the back room
where they inject the microchip into his arm
and brand him. Alright, the obvious thing to
do here is throw this guy under the bus, it's
just not right to make two players lose from a
single card, but if we insisted on being a loser,
then at the very least, we should claim that
the card belongs to us and to let this guy go,
otherwise, it's an incredible waste of opportunity
here, and they're both gonna pay for this mistake
very soon. Kaiji along with all the other
losers are moved underground and forced to
work as slaves in a labor camp for 15 years
to pay off their debts, there's no way out,
and they're being monitored 24/7. They go back
to their dormitory where Kaiji here receives
his first paycheck. This underground
labor camp uses a different currency,
and is only worth a tenth of a yen, he'll never
be able to save up enough money to get out.
Okay, the first problem I see is too much
individuality. So far they only seem to be
controlled by the foreman here and a few staff
members, there must be more security down here,
but they're still outnumbered by the labor force.
If things are this hopeless and they have no
chance of saving up enough money to earn their way
out, then I would start planning for an uprising.
We need to make friends with the other work crews
and figure out who the leaders are. If we convince
them to join the rebellion, they can use their
influence over their crews and start gathering
equipment, scouting locations for possible escape
routes and figure out the guards' routines.
We also need to know which way the
construction vehicles come from and
the layout of the underground tunnels, there
must be an elevator or ramp system big enough
to bring these vehicles down here directly. We
should coordinate a day where we all rebel then
hijack the construction vehicles and drive them
out of here to the surface. As in any revolution,
many of us will die, but I'd rather die
on my feet, than keep living on my knees.
He gets back to work when an explosion goes
off and shakes the entire underground network,
he takes his injured friend to the medic, but
when he sees other workers here left untreated,
he realises these patients don't have enough
money to buy medicine. The air is so bad down
here that they're all getting sick, but the
boss is tempting workers into spending their
money so that they never get healthy or pay off
their debt. They need to escape this place for
any hope to survive, but they're in luck as
the doctor points to a message in the corner,
written in blood and tells them there's only
one way out, and it's called brave men road.
Okay, brave men road sounds too brave for
me, but there's something here that Kaiji
is not considering yet, this medical area has
something way more valuable than everywhere else,
and that's medicine. It's pretty clear
that honest labor will get us nowhere,
so I would plan on stealing all the medication
I could. First, observe which drugs are being
sold to which conditions and figure out
which of these drugs are the strongest
and most profitable, then come back and
admit yourself by faking that condition.
The medication will be brought out of storage
to be sold, and we can steal enough of it with
a distraction to then sell to our co-workers
and undercut the rates. They would all want
to buy it for the cheaper price, so they'll
keep it a secret for us as well, and we can
make money a lot more quickly than before. Later
that day, Kaiji here considers what he's learned,
and when the foreman comes by to extort him
for an advance on his salary, he flips out.
Making a scene, he calls the foreman a crook
for manipulating them, but Kaiji is interrupted
when some guards announce that this man has
been chosen to compete on the brave men road,
and they learn that whoever wins will go back
to the surface. Hearing this, Kaiji decides to
volunteer and take back his freedom even if
it kills him. Joining several other workers,
they're taken up an elevator to the 50th floor
of a skyscraper where they're told the rules of
this new game. All they have to do is deliver
these cash vouchers to a designated location
at the Starside hotel and exchange them for cash,
but to get there, they must cross this crane that
leads to the building next to them and make it
to the other side. They'll get 10 million cash
if they do, but the men are too scared to cross
it until Kaiji here volunteers. The others are
inspired to join him until the host reveals that
their bridge to freedom is electrified as well.
Inside the building, a table of rich guests
are watching the event for entertainment,
so the workers aren't allowed to use
their hands when they cross the beam.
Okay, this one would defeat me because I'm super
scared of heights, but if we can move past the
fear factor here, then there might actually be a
way to do this without falling. Now we can't touch
the beams with our hands, but we also learned in
the first game, that they're totally fine with
you bending the rules to your advantage as long as
you accomplish the task and entertain the guests.
What we need here is more stability, and if we
can add more points of contact with the bridge,
then we'll have a better chance at this. This
building is pretty high up, and if you've ever
been to the top of a skyscraper, it can get pretty
windy. If the wind is catching on your clothes,
it adds drag and can throw you off
balance. So if we minimise our frame,
then there will be less resistance. Now tightrope
walkers use giant poles to lower their center of
gravity and spread out their mass to decrease the
rotational inertia, unfortunately, all these guys
have are the clothes on their backs, so that's
what we need to use to achieve the same goal.
I would tie all my clothing together in a long
rope and swing it under the bridge, then catch it
on the other side, now we have added two points of
contact with the bridge and lowered our center of
gravity, like a tightrope walker so this will let
us shuffle ourselves forwards with more stability.
If we lean too forward in any direction, we can
simply pull in the cloth rope and correct our
balance. The rich viewers might not like this, but
it's definitely worth trying if it means we won't
fall to our deaths. Kaiji here has a big idea,
he pulls this marker out of thin air and draws
a line on everyone's shoes to help them align
themselves to the bridge and keep their balance,
they all feel more confident to make it across now
and start walking out onto the bridge one by one.
Okay, Kaiji here is doing some great thinking,
unfortunately, it's the wrong strategy,
drawing a line down the middle of your shoe seems
like a good idea, but the problem is if your foot
is perfectly centered, then you have to balance
yourself with the most narrow part of your foot,
this makes it extremely difficult to adjust
your balance if you start leaning left or right.
The better strategy here is to angle your foot
sideways so that if you begin to sway, you have
more width across the walkway, and can use more of
the muscles in your feet to maintain your balance.
We can take a lesson from skateboarders here, they
don't face forward or line their feet straight,
they angle themselves, and it gives them extremely
good balance, so we should use the same strategy.
Kaiji here almost falls and manages to catch
himself, but that's when they see storm clouds
flash in the distance. Player one starts to
lose his balance out of desperation, he jumps
forward onto the electrified bridge and falls
to his death, that's one down and nine to go.
Player six here tries to hold on to the bridge
and shocks himself causing him to fall off. Player
five chickens out and turns back, grabbing the man
behind him, and they both plummet to their deaths.
Eventually, there's only three players
left in the game, as it starts to rain.
They all continue to make their way across
the bridge, but the old man tells Kaiji here,
he can't continue. He asks him to take his money
voucher and exchange it for his daughter before
falling off the bridge. Okay, if I'm being honest,
this old man, never had a chance. He's too old and
unstable to survive this walk and helping him,
will only put us at risk. If he wants to save
his daughter, he needs to walk towards me to hand
it over because I'm not changing my direction and
walking backwards on a slippery metal pole in the
rain 200 meters above the ground, it's also highly
unlikely that this slave driving corporation,
will let me redeem both coupons for a combined
20 million yen. So the best move here is to let
this guy Ishida die and keep walking forwards
to focus on surviving. The remaining players
continue crossing and make it to the other side,
they're just about to win, but Kaiji senses
that something is not right about this.
He warns the other player, but it's too late, the
door suddenly flies open and they're blown away
by a wind blast. There was one last trick
the organisers of the death game set up.
While Kaiji here is left hanging, his friend
falls to his death. Climbing back up the ledge,
he crawls into the building and finds the members
of the corporation applauding his performance.
The chairman of the company walks in and
Kaiji here chews them out for their cruelty.
He demands they pay him his 20 million, but
the host refuses, deducting nearly all the
money from Kaiji's voucher to pay off his debt.
He yells at the host that the old man who fell
proved he wasn't a loser because in his last
dying moments he was thinking of someone else.
The chairman here finds the kid interesting
and decides to set up one last game for him.
Okay, these guys are obviously horrible
people and most of them should be shot,
but it's hard to stay mad when we're definitely
better off right now than we were days ago.
This poor guy keeps ending up in apocalyptic
scenarios, and at this point, maybe the best
thing for him to do is move out of the country.
There aren't any battle royales in Brazil,
which hold the largest Japanese community outside
of Japan. The government promoted immigration as
a national policy until the late 1960s to get rid
of poverty and over-population and Kaiji here fits
the bill. As soon as he walks free, he's going
to remember how miserable his life was and will
fall into the same bad decisions, and he'll
probably blow all his money on scratch cards,
so there's no point going back without a boatload
of cash. Kaiji sits down and they tell him he will
be playing e-card against the host, Tonegawa.
There are two sets of five cards, one plays as
the emperor and the other plays as the slave.
The game is simple, they'll play three rounds
and each player picks a card and puts it down on
the table, two citizens will result in a draw,
which means the round continues, while a citizen
beats a slave and the emperor beats the citizen,
but because a slave has nothing to lose it's
the only card that can beat the emperor.
The host explains that he cannot choose his
cards randomly and must look at the card and
make a decision before putting it on the
table. He's offered the choice to play
as the emperor or as a slave, which pays 10
to 1. He decides to take the slave and he's
put himself at a disadvantage. The slave
player must go first and Kaiji's opponent
will get to see his facial expressions,
so the odds of winning are extremely low.
Okay, this is daunting. Tonegawa here runs this
entire underground gambling empire and has watched
and studied people's gambling habits in life and
death situations for a long time, he has a huge
advantage, and we need to find a way to remove
that if this is going to be a fair game. Now,
before we started, he made a point to mention that
we aren't allowed to be random in our strategy,
and he also said, that we must look at the card
before we put it down, this is a big deal because
it tells us everything about his own strategy. He
needs to read our expressions and body language to
make his decision. Now when the stakes are
this high, trying to control or fake your
micro-expressions is a lot more difficult than you
might think. When we are under extreme stress, our
emotions tend to leak out so I would simply pull
my shirt over my head to cover my face so that I
could still see the cards, but he couldn't see my
expressions at all because it's going to take away
his advantage and help me win, and if the chairman
here thinks it's entertaining he might approve of
the tactic. They start the game and Kaiji plays
his first card, but without hesitation, the host
plays his own and they draw. He plays his next
card without even looking, the host plays his,
something strange is going on, as the host doesn't
even look up to analyse the kid's expressions.
On the third turn, Kaiji here goes
for the win and puts on a slave card,
hoping the host will play the emperor, but the
host can read his mind. He turns over a citizen,
taking away any chances of Kaiji winning. The
chairman wants to see more, and gives a loan to
Kaiji here so that he can continue playing,
but he's warned that this time if he loses,
he'll have to work underground for the rest of
his life. Okay, before playing another round,
we have to remember who our opponents are, these
guys have bent the rules either for their own
entertainment or to screw over the players. It's
fair to assume that this game is stacked against
you. So at this point, I will be looking for any
signs of cheating, I would inspect the table and
the room for any cameras or sensors as well
as any noticeable markings on the cards. He
might even have an ear piece, so I would ask
anyone standing behind me to clear the area
so they can't tell him what my cards are, but
even if I didn't find anything, Tonegawa here
has already dropped hints that should make
us suspicious, by telling us he can read our
minds. If this is somehow true, he wouldn't
be letting us know this. The man definitely
knows how to keep every advantage a secret,
so his opponent doesn't adjust his strategy,
and Kaiji here is about to figure out that this
wasn't a careless comment, but a calculated one.
This second time around, Kaiji decides to go
against expectations and play the slave on the
first turn, but as he's about to place it, he
notices his opponent isn't even looking at his
own cards, the man is looking at something else
entirely. When the host finally plays his hand,
it's a citizen card, and in one turn, he's
ended Kaiji's life. The kid gets dragged out,
but as he reaches the elevator, he remembers the
man wasn't wearing the same watch as before and
realises it must have been what he was looking
at. He was using the implanted chip in Kaiji's
shoulder to monitor his physiological responses to
the game, the whole thing was a setup. He's been
tricked into betting his life away, but as he lays
on the floor, he begins to form a plan. Asking
to go to the bathroom, he meets the loan shark
and tells her, he's figured out how to win this
time and convinces her to give him another loan.
Walking back into the room, Kaiji asks for one
final round, and he's got the money to back it up.
Tonegawa resists but the chairman is interested
and orders him to play. Okay, we still don't have
the upper hand here, but we can even the playing
field. This guy can track my physiological
responses to each card I play, and there are
four meters on this watch measuring heart rate,
blood pressure, body temperature and perspiration.
When people are put in stressful situations,
their body produces adrenaline, triggering
their flight or fight response. This makes
their heart beat faster and increases their
blood pressure. If we want a chance at beating
this man, we have to manipulate his meters by
keeping our heart rate high, so he can't see any
fluctuation based on my decision-making. If I
start taking short rapid breaths, my pulse will
get faster creating a simulated panic response,
this will throw Tonegawa off his game, giving me
a better chance to win. Before they begin, Kaiji
slams his head into the mirror and they think
he's gone crazy, but it's all a part of his plan.
He takes three of the citizen cards and hides them
on his chair before flipping the remaining two
left on the table. With Tonegawa distracted by
the chairman, Kaiji switches a citizen card for a
slave, just as the man turns back around. The host
checks his watch and sees his sensors going wild.
Fired up, the kid slams his hand on the table,
spilling blood all over his cards. The loan
shark tells him to calm down, so he wipes his
cards, and prepares to play the game of his life.
Okay, he shouldn't be calming down, he's cut
himself pretty well, but his vitals might go
right back to normal after a few minutes. I would
want a guarantee we had a level playing field for
the entire game, so I would go once step further
and take one of these glass shards, to cut the
microchip out of my arm. They might object, but
this will make it impossible for Tonegawa to cheat
even after my heart rate has calmed down. He lays
down his first card, and the kid's fight heart
rate is affecting his sensors. Nervous, the man
isn't sure what card to choose, but when they flip
their cards, the first turn ends in a draw. Kaiji
confidently plays his next card when the host
notices the blood stain, he remembers that Kaiji
bled on his slave and citizen cards earlier so
there's a 50% chance it's the slave. The man puts
on a citizen hoping to win, but the turn ends in
yet another draw. The next card he plays doesn't
have a blood stain, so it should be a citizen,
but he's not sure, so he decides to play it safe
and it's another draw. With two cards remaining
Kaiji here places another card with a blood stain
and Tonegawa here thinks it must be the slave,
but realises that this could be a trick. If
the kid might have switched his slave for a
citizen card at the beginning of the match, then
both blood stain cards were actually citizens.
Tonegawa here plays his emperor card confident
that he's won, but Kaiji here has outplayed him,
he's just won the game and it's taken Tonegawa
here completely by surprise. He tricked the
man into thinking he swapped his card when he
actually never changed them. Having lost the
match, the host is sentenced to a lifetime of
working underground like all the other losers,
and Kaiji receives all the money he was promised.
Later he goes out to celebrate with the loan shark
over dinner and he gives her the money he owes,
but as they toast to his new and improved life,
he suddenly blacks out. Okay, this woman should
not be trusted because she's already tried to
screw you over and now that you have lots of
money, there's an even greater chance of that
happening. If you're going to let a woman take
this much money away from you then at least make
her do it through an alimony settlement after
a long and unhappy marriage. When he wakes up,
he finds the loan shark is gone and she's
stolen all his money, the only thing she
left him is a loose change with a message
saying she's cleared his debt with interest.
Kaiji walks the city a free man, but he's
got no idea that the games have only begun.
But what do you think? How would you beat
Kaiji? Let me know with a comment down
below. And thank you so much for watching,
leave a like and subscribe and check out
the How To Beat playlist for more videos like
this. Until next time, have a damn good day.